# sql-challenge

To complete this analysis, six csv files were analyzed to see what columns were contained in each, and which csvs had columns in common. That info was used to make an ERD between the tables. The schemata of the six tables were then created and the csvs were imported so they were viewable in SQL.

To query the salary and employee info, an inner join was completed with the employee and the salaries table using the common column employee number. To find the employees hired in the year 1986, a where clause was used on the employee table to filter the dates to be within the year 1986. In order to list the manager of each department and their employee info, an inner join was completed on the dept_manager table, with the departments table using the dept number and employees table using the employee number for the join. To list the dept info with the employee info for each employee, an inner join was done on the department_employees table with the employees table using the employee number, and with the department table using the department number. Then the query was done on the employee table where the first name of the employee is "Hercules" and the last name started with a "B" using the wildcard "%" in the query. To find the employees within the Sales dept, an inner join was done between the departments table and the department employees table using the dept numbers, and on the employee table using the employee numbers. The department name was also filterd for the Sales dept using a where clause. The same thing was done to find the employees within the Sales and Development dept with the where clause including Sales or Development. Lastly, to find the amount of employees with the same last name, a group by was done on the employees table using the count of the last name column, and it was listed in descending order.
